h2. Emacs relative-file _load_, _require_ *==__FILE__==* and a _provide-me_ macro.

Here we add functions: *load-relative*, *require-relative*, *require-relative-list*, *==__FILE__==*, and macro *provide-me*.

The latest version is at "http://github.com/rocky/emacs-load-relative/"://github.com/rocky/emacs-load-relative/

h3. *==__FILE__==*

*==__FILE__==* returns the file name that that the calling program is running.  If you are _eval_'ing a buffer then the file name of that buffer is used. The name was selected to be analogous to the name used in C, Perl, and Ruby.

h3. _load-relative_

_load-relative_ loads an Emacs Lisp file relative to another (presumably currently running) Emacs Lisp file. For example if you have files _foo.el_ and _bar.el_ in the same directory, then to load Emacs Lisp file _bar.el_ from inside Emacs lisp file _foo.el_:

bc.  (require 'load-relative)
 (load-relative "baz")

That _load-relative_ line could above have also been written as:

bc.  (load-relative "./baz")

or:

bc.  (load-relative "baz.el")  # if you want to exclude any byte-compiled files

h3. require-relative, require-relative-list

If instead of loading file _baz_, you want to _require_ it:

bc.  (require-relative "baz")

or 

bc.  (require-relative "./baz")

The above not only does a _require_ on _'baz_, but makes sure you get that from the same file as you would have if you had issued _load_relative_. 

If you have a list of files you want to _require_, you can require them one shot using _require-relative-list_ like this:

bc.  (require-relative-list '("dbgr-init" "dbgr-fringe"))

h3. provide-me

Finally, macro _provide-me_ saves you the trouble of adding a symbol after _provide_, by using the file basename (without directory or file extension) as the name of the thing you want to provide. Using this forces the _provide_ names to be the same as the filename, but  I consider that a good thing.
